# Project Analytics - Metric Definitions

## Project Analytics - Metrics

The Project Analytics module analyzes all work items/tickets in an Agile board and produces metrics to help Agile teams better understand the planning, development, and delivery processes.&#x20;

These Agile metrics shouldn't be used as a target for agile teams, it's just a tool that enables them to identify the signals of their planning, development, and delivery processes. [Oobeya](https://oobeya.io/) leverages these metrics to detect symptoms of the processes.

***

### Project Analytics Metric Definitions

<table data-full-width="false"><thead><tr><th width="263">Metric</th><th>Definition</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td><strong>Planned</strong></td><td>The count of work items planned before the <em>planning cut-off date*</em>.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Planned Effort</strong></td><td>The total effort estimation of work items planned before the <em>planning cut-off date*</em>.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Done Planned</strong></td><td>The count of planned work items completed at the end of the sprint.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Pulled in Extra</strong></td><td>The count of work items added after the sprint planning cut-off date (unplanned).</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Effort Pulled in Extra</strong></td><td>The total effort estimation of work items added after the sprint planning cut-off date.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Unfinished</strong></td><td>The count of work items remaining incomplete at the end of the sprint.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Unfinished Effort</strong></td><td>The total effort estimation for work items unfinished at the end of the sprint.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Unfinished Planned</strong></td><td>The count of planned work items remained incomplete at the end of the sprint.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Unfinished Effort Planned</strong></td><td>The total effort estimation of planned work items remained incomplete.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Unfinished Effort Pulled in Extra</strong></td><td>The total effort estimation of pulled-in extra work items remained incomplete.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Dropped</strong></td><td>The count of work items intentionally dropped from the ongoing sprint. (Pulled-in extra work items are also counted if they are dropped from the sprint before the end of the sprint.)</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Effort Dropped</strong></td><td>The total effort estimation of work items dropped after the planning cut-off date. (Pulled-in extra work items are also counted if they are dropped from the sprint before the end of the sprint.)</td></tr><tr><td><strong>End of Sprint</strong></td><td>The count of all work items, both completed and incomplete, at the end of the sprint.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Effort End of Sprint</strong></td><td>The total effort estimation of all work items, both completed and incomplete, at the end of the sprint.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Done</strong></td><td>The count of work items completed at the end of the sprint.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Done Effort</strong></td><td>The total effort estimation of work items completed.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Predictability [%]</strong></td><td>Done Planned / Planned * 100</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Productivity [%]</strong></td><td>[(Done Planned + Done Pulled in extra) / Planned] * 100</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Churn [%]</strong></td><td>[Done Pulled in extra / (Done Planned + Done Pulled in extra)] * 100</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Delivery Rate [%]</strong></td><td>(Done / Total) * 100</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Planning Accuracy [%]</strong></td><td>(Done / Planned) * 100</td></tr></tbody></table>

**\* Planning Cut-off Date:** A set date by which all planning activities for a sprint must be completed. Any work items included or removed after this date are considered pulled-in extra or dropped.
